downloads.rst, before:

.. _downloads:

Downloads
=========

FEPX is distributed as a free / open-source software, under the terms of the `GNU General Public License (GPL) <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>`_. In short, this means that everyone is free to use FEPX and to redistribute it on a free basis. FEPX is not in the public domain; it is copyrighted and there are restrictions on its distribution (see the `license <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>`_ and the related `FAQ <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl-faq.html>`_).

It you use FEPX for your own work, please mention it explicitly and cite one the papers given on the :ref:`papers` page.

Current Official Release
------------------------

The current official release (and previous ones) is available on the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/acmelab-ua/FEPX/releases>`_.

Latest Version
--------------

The latest version is available on the :code:`main` branch of the GitHub repository, which is available from https://github.com/acmelab-ua/FEPX. This is also the place for code contributions, see the :ref:`community` page.

Commit message:

Improve Downloads section
Added instructions to download the latest version.

downloads.rst, after:

.. _downloads:

Downloads
=========

FEPX is distributed as a free / open-source software, under the terms of the `GNU General Public License (GPL) <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>`_. In short, this means that everyone is free to use FEPX and to redistribute it on a free basis. FEPX is not in the public domain; it is copyrighted and there are restrictions on its distribution (see the `license <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>`_ and the related `FAQ <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl-faq.html>`_).

It you use FEPX for your own work, please mention it explicitly and cite one the papers given on the :ref:`papers` page.

Current Official Release
------------------------

The current official release (and previous ones) is available from the `Releases <https://github.com/acmelab-ua/FEPX/releases>`_ section of the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/acmelab-ua/FEPX>`_.

Latest Version
--------------

The latest version is available on the :code:`main` branch of the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/acmelab-ua/FEPX>`_.  To get the latest version as a Git user, run:

.. code-block:: console

  $ git clone https://github.com/acmelab-ua/FEPX.git

which will download the repository.  To update the repository at any later time, run:

.. code-block:: console

  $ git pull origin main

from within the repository.

To get the latest version as a non-Git user, run:

.. code-block:: console

  $ wget https://github.com/acmelab-ua/FEPX/archive/refs/heads/main.zip

which will download only the latest version.  Alternatively, you may click on :data:`Code` / :data:`Download ZIP` on the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/acmelab-ua/FEPX>`_.

The `GitHub repository <https://github.com/acmelab-ua/FEPX>`_ is also the place for interactions, see the :ref:`community` page.
