\input texinfo.tex
@c This file is part of the FEPX software package.
@c Copyright (C) 1996-2021, DPLab, ACME Lab.
@c See the COPYING file in the top-level directory.

@afourpaper
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c This is the FEPX documentation texinfo source file
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c %**start of header
@setfilename        fepx.info
@include version.texi
@set COPYRIGHT @copyright{} 1996--2020, DPLab, ACME Lab
@c
@settitle FEPX @value{FEPX_VERSION}
@footnotestyle separate
@setchapternewpage odd
@paragraphindent 0
@finalout
@c

@c merge function index into type index
@syncodeindex fn tp

@c =========================================================================
@c Info directives
@c =========================================================================

@ifinfo
@dircategory Math
@direntry
* FEPX: (fepx).
@end direntry
@noindent
This is the @cite{FEPX Reference Manual} for FEPX @value{FEPX_VERSION}
(@today{}).
@noindent
Copyright @value{COPYRIGHT}
@end ifinfo

@c =========================================================================
@c Title page
@c =========================================================================

@c @shorttitlepage FEPX

@titlepage

@title FEPX Reference Manual

@subtitle The documentation for FEPX @value{FEPX_VERSION}
@subtitle A finite element software package for polycrystal plasticity
@subtitle @*
@subtitle @today{}
@c @subtitle Edition @value{FEPX_VERSION} @today{}

@author ACME Lab

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @value{COPYRIGHT}

@sp 1
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on
all copies.

@end titlepage

@c =========================================================================
@c Table of contents
@c =========================================================================

@c @summarycontents
@contents

@c =========================================================================
@c Top node (for all output, except TeX)
@c =========================================================================

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top FEPX

ACME Lab

FEPX is a crystal plasticity finite element software package.
This is the @cite{FEPX Reference Manual} for FEPX
@value{FEPX_VERSION} (@today{}).
@end ifnottex

@c =========================================================================
@c Master menu
@c =========================================================================

@menu
* Conditions of Use::
* Introduction::
* Simulation Input::
* Simulation Output::
* Running a Simulation::
* Example Simulations::
* Development History::
* References::
* GNU General Public License::
@end menu

@c DEFINING MACROS

@c FEPX
@macro fepx
FEPX
@end macro

@c COM
@macro com{a}
@iftex
@sp 0
@ @phantom{XX}
@t{$} @code{\a\}
@end iftex
@ifinfo
$ \a\
@end ifinfo
@end macro

@c COM
@macro comc{a,b}
@iftex
@sp 0
@ @phantom{XX}
@t{$} @code{\a\} \b\
@end iftex
@ifinfo
$ \a\ \b\
@end ifinfo
@end macro

@macro comx{a}
@iftex
@sp 0
@ @phantom{XX}
@phantom{@t{$}} @code{\a\}
@ @phantom{XX}
@sp 0
@end iftex
@ifinfo
$ \a\
@end ifinfo
@end macro

@macro inputfilehead
@iftex
@sp 0.8
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@sp 1
@end ifinfo
@end macro

@macro inputfilefoot
@iftex
@sp 0.6
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@sp 1
@end ifinfo
@end macro

@macro verbatimsep
@iftex
@sp 0.5
@end iftex
@ifinfo
@sp 1
@end ifinfo
@end macro

@c @macro comx{a}
@c @multitable @columnfractions 0.05 0.95
@c @item
@c @tab @t{ } @t{\a\}
@c @end multitable
@c @end macro

@c @tab @t{@phantom{$}} @t{\a\}

@c Reference index listed in order as maintained in `refs.texi`.
@c This allows for a rough global citation method by adding @value{ref_name}
@c into the text which will produce a 'index' integer. This 'index' integer
@c is generated by hand and should match the enumeration order in `refs.texi`.
@c Note that NO formatting is generated and this must be added by hand.

@set mar_daw_98a            1
@set mar_daw_98b            2
@set bea_daw_mat_koc_95     3
@set mik_daw_99             4
@set egg_daw_88             5
@set bar_daw_mil_99         6
@set daw_mar_98p            7
@set mat_daw_89             8
@set mat_daw_90             9
@set kum_daw_95             10
@set daw_wen_00             11
@set mathur_numiform95      12
@set bea_mat_daw_joh_93     13
@set bea_daw_mat_koc_kor_94 14
@set rit_daw_09             15
@set que_daw_bar_11         16
@set daw_boy_15a            17
@set ger_daw_08b            18
@set car_daw_jmps_2019      19
@set kas_daw_cmame_2020     20
@set car_daw_17             21
@set turk_daw_04            22
@c @set ref_name index
@c ...

@c End reference index

@include copying.texi
@include introduction.texi
@include input.texi
@include output.texi
@include job.texi
@include examples.texi
@include develhistory.texi
@include refs.texi
@include license.texi

@c @node Option Index
@c @unnumbered Option Index
@c @printindex ky
@c for some odd reasons, it does not work with a function index
@c (@findex and fn)

@bye
