@c This file is part of the FEPX software package.
@c Copyright (C) 1996-2020 ACME Lab
@c See the COPYING file in the top-level directory.

@node References
@appendix References

@enumerate

@item @c [mar_daw_98a 1]
E. B. Marin and P. R. Dawson.
On modeling the elasto-viscoplastic response of metals using polycrystal plasticity. 
@cite{Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering}, 
165:1-21, 
1998.

@item @c [mar_daw_98b 2]
E. B. Marin and P. R. Dawson.
Elastoplastic finite element analysis of metal deformations using polycrystal constititive models.
@cite{Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering},
165:23-41,
1998.

@item @c [bea_daw_mat_koc_95 3]
A. J. Beaudoin, P. R. Dawson, K. K. Mathur, and U. F. Kocks.
A hybrid finite element formulation for polycrystal plasticity with consideration of macrostructural and microstructural linking.
@cite{International Journal of Plasticity},
11:501-521,
1995.

@item @c [mik_daw_99 4]
D. P. Mika and P. R. Dawson.
Polycrystal Plasticity Modeling of Intracrystalline Boundary Textures.
@cite{Acta Materialia},
47(4):1355-1369, 
1999.

@item @c [egg_daw_88 5]
G. M. Eggert and P. R. Dawson.
A viscoplastic formulation with elasticity for transient metal forming.
@cite{Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering},
70:165-190,
1988.

@item @c [bar_daw_mil_99 6]
N. R. Barton, P. R. Dawson, and M. P. Miller.
Yield strength asymmetry predictions from polycrystal plasticity.
@cite{Journal of Engineering Materials and Technology},
121:230-239, 
1999.

@item @c [daw_mar_98p 7]
P. R. Dawson and E. B. Marin.
Computational mechanics for metal deformation processes using polycrystal plasticity.
In Erik van der Giessen and Theodore Y. Wu, editors,
@cite{Advances in Applied Mechanics},
34:78-169.
Academic Press,
1998.

@item @c [mat_daw_89 8]
K. K. Mathur and P. R. Dawson.
On modeling the development of crystallographic texture in bulk forming processes.
@cite{International Journal of Plasticity},
5:67-94,
1989.

@item @c [mat_daw_90 9]
K. K. Mathur and P. R. Dawson.
Texture development during wire drawing.
@cite{Journal of Engineering Materials and Technology},
112(3):292-297,
1990.

@item @c [kum_daw_95 10]
A. Kumar and P. R. Dawson.
Polycrystal plasticity modeling of bulk forming with finite elements over orientation space.
@cite{Computational Mechanics},
17:10-25,
1995.

@item @c [daw_wen_00 11]
P. R. Dawson and H.-R. Wenk.
Texturing the upper mantle during convection.
@cite{Philosophical Magazine A},
80(3):573-598, 
2000. 

@item @c [mathur_numiform95 12]
K. K. Mathur.
Parallel algorithms for large scale simulations in materials processing.
In S. F. Shen and P. R. Dawson, editors,
@cite{Simulation of Materials Processing: Theory, Methods and Applications – NUMIFORM
95},
109-114.
A. A. Balkema,
1995.

@item @c [bea_mat_daw_joh_93 13]
A. J. Beaudoin, K. K. Mathur, P. R. Dawson, and G.C. Johnson.
Three-dimensional deformation process simulation with explicit use of polycrystalline plasticity models.
@cite{International Journal of Plasticity},
9:833-860,
1993.

@item @c [bea_daw_mat_koc_kor_94 14]
A. J. Beaudoin, P. R. Dawson, K. K. Mathur, U. F. Kocks, and D. A. Korzekwa.
Application of polycrystal plasticity to sheet forming.
@cite{Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering},
117:49-70,
1994.

@item @c [rit_daw_09 15]
H. Ritz and P. R. Dawson.
Sensitivity to grain discretization of the simulated crystal stress distributions in fcc polycrystals.
@cite{Modeling and Simulation in Materials Science and Engineering},
17:1-21,
2009.       

@item @c [que_daw_bar_11 16]
R. Quey, P. R. Dawson, and F. Barbe.
Large-scale 3-D random polycrystals for the finite element method: generation meshing and remeshing.
@cite{Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering},
200:1729-1745,
2011.    

@item @c [daw_boy_15a 17]
P. R. Dawson and D. E. Boyce.
FEpX – Finite Element Polycrystals: Theory, finite element formulation,
numerical implementation and illustrative examples.
@var{arXiv:1504.03296 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci]},
2015.

@item @c [ger_daw_08b 18]
J. M. Gerken and P. R. Dawson.
A finite element formulation to solve a non-local constitutive model with stresses and strains due to slip gradients.
@cite{Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering},
197:1343-1361,
2008.

@item @c [car_daw_jmps_2019 19]
R. A. Carson and P. R. Dawson.
Formulation and Characterization of a Continuous Crystal Lattice Orientation Finite Element Method (LOFEM) and its Application to Dislocation Fields.  
@cite{Journal of the Physics and Mechanics of Solids},
126:1-26,
2019. 	

@item @c [kas_daw_cmame_2020 20]
M. P. Kasemer and P. R. Dawson.
A finite element methodology to incorporate kinematic activation of discrete deformation twins in a crystal plasticity framework.
@cite{Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering},
358:112653,
2020. 

@item @c [car_daw_17 21]
R. Carson, M. Obstalecki, M. Miller, and P. R. Dawson.
Characterizing heterogeneous intragranular deformations in polycrystalline solids using diffraction-based and mechanics-based metrics.
@cite{Modelling and Simulation in Materials Science and Engineering},
25:055008,
2017. 

@item @c [turk_daw_04 22]
H. S. Turkmen, M. P. Miller, P. R. Dawson, and J. C. Moosbrugger.
A slip-based model for strength evolution during cyclic loading.
@cite{Journal of Engineering Materials and Technology},
126(4):329-338,
2004.

@end enumerate
