doc/copying.rst, before:

.. _conditions_of_use:

Conditions of Use
=================

Copying Conditions
------------------

FEPX is "free software"; this means that everyone is free to use it and to redistribute it on a free basis. FEPX is not in the public domain; it is copyrighted and there are restrictions on its distribution, but these restrictions are designed to permit everything that a good cooperating citizen would want to do.  What is not allowed is to try to prevent others from further sharing any version of FEPX that they might get from you.

Specifically, we want to make sure that you have the right to give away copies of FEPX, that you receive source code or else can get it if you want it, that you can change FEPX or use pieces of FEPX in new free programs, and that you know you can do these things.

To make sure that everyone has such rights, we have to forbid you to deprive anyone else of these rights.  For example, if you distribute copies of FEPX, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  And you must tell them their rights.

Also, for our own protection, we must make certain that everyone finds out that there is no warranty for FEPX.  If FEPX is modified by someone else and passed on, we want their recipients to know that what they have is not what we distributed, so that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on our reputation.

The precise conditions of the license for FEPX are found in the General Public License that accompanies the source code (:ref:`GNU General Public License <gpl>`). Further information about this license is available from the `GNU Project webpage <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl-faq.html>`_.

User Guidelines
---------------

If you use FEPX for your own work, please, mention it explicitly in your reports and cite the following publication [DAWSON15]_:

.. [DAWSON15] P.R. Dawson and D.E. Boyce. FEpX – Finite Element Polycrystals: Theory, finite element formulation, numerical implementation and illustrative examples. *arXiv:1504.03296 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci]*, 2015.

Commit message:

Add new capabilities
- Overhaul source code.
- Overhaul configuration file.
- Overhaul output, now .sim format (compatible with Neper).
- Added parallelized multi-point constraints and periodic boundary conditions.
- Added 2-parameter anisotropic hardening (diagonal + off-diagonal values).
- Generalize code to take arbitrary domain shapes and boundary conditions.
- Added ability for 112-type slip in BCC crystals, added ability to specify
  anisotropic initial slip strengths, improved precipitate strengthening model
  (Orowan looping).
- Made various other changes and improvements.

doc/copying.rst, after:

.. _conditions_of_use:

Conditions of Use
=================

Copying Conditions
------------------

FEPX is "free software"; this means that everyone is free to use it and to redistribute it on a free basis. FEPX is not in the public domain; it is copyrighted and there are restrictions on its distribution, but these restrictions are designed to permit everything that a good cooperating citizen would want to do.  What is not allowed is to try to prevent others from further sharing any version of FEPX that they might get from you.

Specifically, we want to make sure that you have the right to give away copies of FEPX, that you receive source code or else can get it if you want it, that you can change FEPX or use pieces of FEPX in new free programs, and that you know you can do these things.

To make sure that everyone has such rights, we have to forbid you to deprive anyone else of these rights.  For example, if you distribute copies of FEPX, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  And you must tell them their rights.

Also, for our own protection, we must make certain that everyone finds out that there is no warranty for FEPX.  If FEPX is modified by someone else and passed on, we want their recipients to know that what they have is not what we distributed, so that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on our reputation.

The precise conditions of the license for FEPX are found in the General Public License that accompanies the source code (:ref:`GNU General Public License <gpl>`). Further information about this license is available from the `GNU Project webpage <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl-faq.html>`_.

User Guidelines
---------------

If you use FEPX for your own work, please, mention it explicitly in your reports (papers, books, talks, etc.) and cite the following papers:

- *R. Quey and M. Kasemer, The Neper/FEPX project: free / open-source polycrystal generation, deformation simulation, and post-processing, IOP Conference Series Materials Science and Engineering, vol. 1249, pp. 012021, 2022*;

- *P.R. Dawson and D.E. Boyce. FEpX – Finite Element Polycrystals: Theory, finite element formulation, numerical implementation and illustrative examples. arXiv:1504.03296 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci], 2015*.
